---
layout: post
title: How It All Started
---

## Inspiration

This project was inspired by [Gina Likins](https://twitter.com/lintqueen) the Special Session titled
[Teaching “Blinky Flashy”:​ ​Best Practices and Helpful Tips for Teaching eTextiles to a Wide Range of Students](https://easychair.org/smart-program/SIGCSE2018/2018-02-22.html#talk:61740) that I attended at SIGCSE '18 conference.

I have been attending the conference every year since 2015. Gina's special session caught my eye that year - to be honest, I think I would attend almost any session that she run. We did a very simple design with a few LED's and a battery pack. Gina explained all the potential problems with shorting the circuit, tangling the conductive thread, confusing plus and minus signs on the tiny LEDs, poking your fingers with the needle, etc. She went over the _things to say_ and _things to do_ if you are trying to guide students through a similar project.

I completed the workshop with a few LEDs on my conference name-tag lanyard and I was hooked. I wanted to run a similar workshop with my students at NYU.

## From then to now

For the past year and a half, I have been collecting the hardware. Gina shared her _shopping list_ and countless tips in what is absolutely necessary, what would be useful and what is good to have just because it is cool. There were several times that I thought I was ready to run the workshop or mentor an independent study project, but every time something got in the way.

Finally, starting this fall semester, I am working with two independent study students who are interested in the project I called WEARABLES. The gist of the project is to start with some basics of assembling a circuit containing a few LEDs and a power source (just like we did with Gina) and then let the students' creativity and ideas unfold. My plan is to do my best not to get in the way, but provide the structure and support that will get them there.

We had our initial meeting last Thursday (more on that in the next post) and after I took out some of the electronics for the first stage of their project, I started feeling jealous of my students. I want to work with these cool electronics and designs too. So, I decided that I will work along my students and try to follow all the same stages of the project that I planned for them. We will see if I succeed :rofl: .

## Resources  
